## 5. Compatibility with LAPPS Tools

> These are highly preliminary notes

A converter is required to run LIF tools with MMIF as input. Here's two possible scenarios that the converter must be able to handle.

##### Running LAPPS tools on the primary text sources

In this simple case, a dummy LIF payload should be generated by the converter with the contents of the primary text source file taken as `text`. LAPPS tools can run taking the dummy LIF and returns a LIF with a number of new views generated. Then the converter takes that regular LIF payload and inserts new views in the LIF to the original MMIF.

##### Running LAPPS tools on existing text annotation objects

**This scenario includes running LAPPS tools on text sources generated from the primary AV meterial.**

* OCR from video -> an annotation per box?  -> then, should LAPPS tools handle each box as one "document"? or can we concatenate all text from all boxes linearly and pass to linguistics tools?
  * THIS case needs a lot more thoughts.
* ASR from audio -> an annotation for an entire audio stream? -> then it's easy, treat it as one document
* forced-aligned text -> forced alignment assumes the existence of a external original primary text file -> it's easy, treat it as primary text source



## 5. Related Work

> Highly preliminary notes again

An exchange format for multimodal annotations.
Schmidt et al. 2008. An exchange format for multimodal annotations. In *International LREC Workshop on Multimodal Corpora*.

IIIF (International Image Interoperability Framework). 
See https://iiif.io/ and https://iiif.io/api/#current-specifications.

CMDI (Component MetaData Infrastructure).
https://www.clarin.eu/content/component-metadata
Broeder et all. 2012. CMDI: a component meta- data infrastructure. In *Describing LRs with metadata: towards flexibility and interoperability in the documen- tation of LR workshop programme*. 

Image and video annotation tools.



